doc/tags.adoc, before:

= Understanding The Tags

We use tags to catetorize different types of test scenarios. With a combination of tags, we are able to execute on a specific ci profile.

== List of Tags

[cols=2]
|===
|Tag Name
|Usage Scenario

|`@admin`
|Test scenarios that perform operations requiring the `cluster-admin` priviledge

|`@destructive`
|Test scenarios that perform operations which would result in failures of other parallel tests or create an outage/downtime to the cluster. Scenarios including: node draining, node restart, scaling down, etc.

|`@inactive`
|Inactive test scenario that is either outdated or no longer applicable. Skip tests with an `@inactive` tag

|`@stage-only`
|Tests that can only run on stage

|`@qeci`
|Tests that can only run on QECI because they have implemented dependencies. Do not run tests with this tag unless you have configured their preconditions properly

|`@flaky`
|Unreliable test that keeps failing and is recognized as test automation bug. Skip tests with a `@flaky` tag

|`@console`
|Tests that launches a browser and uses Selenium to complete certain tasks. Skip tests with a `@console` tag in Prow because the webdriver does not work reliably inside containers.

|`@disconnected`
|Test that must run on a diconnected cluster

|`@proxy`
|Test that must run under a cluster/proxy configuration

|`@serial`
|Test that can not run in parallel, scenarios including: console test, `oc debug node`, etc

|`@network-multitenant`
|SDN multitenant test, requires cluster network as multitenat

|`@network-ovnkubernetes`
|SDN ovnkubernetes test, requires cluster network as ovnkubernetes

|`@aws-ipi`
|Test scenarios for aws ipi

|`@aws-upi`
|Test scenarios for aws upi

|`@gcp-ipi`
|Test scenarios for gcp ipi

|`@gcp-upi`
|Test scenarios for gcp upi

|`@azure-ipi`
|Test scenarios for azure ipi

|`@azure-upi`
|Test scenarios for azure upi

|`@vsphere-ipi`
|Test scenarios for vsphere ipi

|`@vsphere-upi`
|Test scenarios for vsphere upi

|`@openstack-ipi`
|Test scenarios for openstack ipi

|`@openstack-upi`
|Test scenarios for openstack upi

|`@baremetal-ipi`
|Test scenarios for baremetal ipi

|`@baremetal-upi`
|Test scenarios for baremetal upi
|===

== Running Tests With Tags

Use `cucumber --tags "@foo"` to execute all test scenarios with tag `@foo`

Use `cucumber --tags "not @foo"` to execute all test scenarios without tag `@foo`

Use `cucumber --tags "@foo and @bar"` to execute all test scenarios with both tag `@foo` and `@bar`

Use `cucumber --tags "@foo and not @bar"` to execute all test scenarios with tag `@foo` and without tag `@bar`

Commit message:

adding docs for supported tags (#2496)

doc/tags.adoc, after:

= Understanding The Tags

We use tags to catetorize different types of test scenarios. With a combination of tags, we are able to execute on a specific ci profile.

== List of Tags

[cols=2]
|===
|Tag Name
|Usage Scenario

|`@admin`
|Test scenarios that perform operations requiring the `cluster-admin` priviledge

|`@destructive`
|Test scenarios that perform operations which would result in failures of other parallel tests or create an outage/downtime to the cluster. Scenarios including: node draining, node restart, scaling down, etc.

|`@inactive`
|Inactive test scenario that is either outdated or no longer applicable. Skip tests with an `@inactive` tag

|`@stage-only`
|Tests that can only run on stage

|`@qeci`
|Tests that can only run on QECI because they have implemented dependencies. Do not run tests with this tag unless you have configured their preconditions properly

|`@security`
|Tests that contain sensitive information which should be run in private ci.

|`@customer`
|Tests that contain customer information which should be run in private ci.

|`@flaky`
|Unreliable test that keeps failing and is recognized as test automation bug. Skip tests with a `@flaky` tag

|`@console`
|Tests that launches a browser and uses Selenium to complete certain tasks. Skip tests with a `@console` tag in Prow because the webdriver does not work reliably inside containers.

|`@disconnected`
|Test that must run on a diconnected cluster

|`@proxy`
|Test that must run under a cluster/proxy configuration

|`@serial`
|Test that can not run in parallel, scenarios including: console test, `oc debug node`, etc

|`@network-multitenant`
|SDN multitenant test, requires cluster network as multitenat

|`@network-ovnkubernetes`
|SDN ovnkubernetes test, requires cluster network as ovnkubernetes

|`@aws-ipi`
|Test scenarios for aws ipi

|`@aws-upi`
|Test scenarios for aws upi

|`@gcp-ipi`
|Test scenarios for gcp ipi

|`@gcp-upi`
|Test scenarios for gcp upi

|`@azure-ipi`
|Test scenarios for azure ipi

|`@azure-upi`
|Test scenarios for azure upi

|`@vsphere-ipi`
|Test scenarios for vsphere ipi

|`@vsphere-upi`
|Test scenarios for vsphere upi

|`@openstack-ipi`
|Test scenarios for openstack ipi

|`@openstack-upi`
|Test scenarios for openstack upi

|`@baremetal-ipi`
|Test scenarios for baremetal ipi

|`@baremetal-upi`
|Test scenarios for baremetal upi

|`@4.x`
|The OCP version the test supports. Tests are executed by matching the supported versions and excludig unsupported versions
|===

== Running Tests With Tags

Use `cucumber --tags "@foo"` to execute all test scenarios with tag `@foo`

Use `cucumber --tags "not @foo"` to execute all test scenarios without tag `@foo`

Use `cucumber --tags "@foo and @bar"` to execute all test scenarios with both tag `@foo` and `@bar`

Use `cucumber --tags "@foo and not @bar"` to execute all test scenarios with tag `@foo` and without tag `@bar`
